{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 These tables provide recalculated maneuver costs (energy cost in joules, and pursuit duration in seconds) for a drift-feeding fish depending on its fork length, focal current speed, and temperature.\
\
To find the appropriate tables for a given fish, first choose the top-level directory corresponding most closely to its fork length in cm (i.e, \'91fl_11.0\'92 for a 10.8-cm fish), the next directory closest to its focal current speed in cm/s, and the final directory closest to its temperature in degrees C. Note that the focal current speed is the only current speed used to compute the maneuver cost, so if you are computing the cost of a maneuver across a known velocity gradient, using an estimate of the average current speed throughout the maneuver is preferable to using the current speed at the focal point itself.\
\
We generated tables for fork lengths from 3 to 66 cm in fairly narrow increments. The overall maximum temperature considered was 24 C, and the maximum focal current speed considered was 81 cm/s. However, within each fork length folder, the range of possible current speeds, as well as the range of temperatures for each current speed, was further limited by the maximum sustainable swimming speed (as calculated from the same Brett & Glass 1973 sockeye model used in the maneuver model) of a fish of that length. In many cases, the highest current speed available to a small fish will only have a narrow range of available temperatures, because the fish cannot hold position at that speed at temperatures far from the optimum for metabolic performance.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Some of the tables include \'91nan\'92 (not a number) values. (Example: fl_11.1/fcs_66.0/t_16.0) These represent situations in which the model could not find a solution to the optimal maneuver, meaning it predicts the maneuver to be beyond the fish\'92s capabilities because it cannot swim fast enough. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The limitations above should still allow the tables to easily cover any realistic foraging situation, which will generally occur at focal current speeds far below the maximum sustainable swimming speed. Even with this realism-based limitation, computing these tables took approximately 2500 CPU-hours on EC2 instances (t2.micro) in the Amazon Web cloud. \
\
Once you have located the right table for the fish whose costs you need to calculate, you can generate an interpolating function to retrieve maneuver costs very quickly. In each table, the first column gives the \'91x\'92 position at which the item was detected (in cm), and the first row gives the \'91y\'92 position (in cm). Maneuver costs are interpolated from the remaining values beginning in the second row and column. Informal testing showed cubic spline interpolation to be the most effective method. Our code for the full maneuver model includes an example of how to do this in Python (maneuver_interpolation_example.py), but it should be easily translatable to R, Matlab, etc. \
\
These tables were all calculated with wait time enabled, to avoid penalizing the effective detection of prey far upstream with high maneuver costs. The only \'91time cost\'92 calculated was the pursuit duration, because that is the portion of the maneuver during which the fish is unlikely to detect and pursue other prey. Observations from multiple studies, including our own, show that fish resume searching for new prey before they\'92ve returned to their focal point.}